INTRODUCTION,

People's Education Society University Ring Road Campus (PESU RR or just PESU), formerly PES Institute of Technology (PESIT), 
is one of three private universities under the name PES University in Bengaluru, India. 
Established in 1972, it is focused on five main educational areas: Engineering, Medicine, Management, Law and Life Sciences. 
The institution offers both foundation courses in these areas, as well as specializations, with a Bachelors, Master or PhD degree. 
It was upgraded to a University in 2013.

ABOUT:

Former name	: PES Institute of Technology
Motto	        : Perseverance, Excellence, Service
Type	        : Private University
Established	: 1972
Founder	        : Dr. M R Doreswamy
Chancellor	: Dr. M R Doreswamy
Vice-Chancellor	: Dr. Suryaprasad J
Principal	: Dr. K S Sridhar
Pro Chancellor	: Prof. Jawahar Doreswamy
Location	: Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

ADMISSION CRITERIA

PESU admits 40% of its students to undergraduate courses based on their Karnataka CET ranks and 60% of 
its students based on PESSAT (the university's own entrance test) ranks.
PESU also admits students under a Management quota, which does not place any merit requirements.

FACULTY AND RESEARCH

Crucible Of Research and Innovation (CORI) is a multi-disciplinary research center at PES University. 
It was inaugurated by Bharat Ratna Dr. C. N. R. Rao (former Director, Indian Institute of Science) on 7 February 2010.
It has research facilities and a set of dedicated research staff who carry out research in various areas.
Centre for Intelligent Systems (CIS) is a research center at PES University which researches on topics like Control Systems, Speech,
Image and Signal Processing, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence and Low Power VLSI design. 
Selected students do internships in the PES Innovation Lab (formerly Microsoft Innovation Lab) on the university campus.

RANKINGS:

The university was ranked in 101-150 band among universities in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2020,
in the 151-200 band overall in 2020 and 93 in the engineering ranking in 2020.

